[Transcript missing]
And then all you have to do,
user decides, hey,
I'm ready to use location.
And you go ahead and
start updating locations.
And then with that,
we go ahead and give you a callback
that says your user moved here.
And then you can take appropriate
actions such as updating your view.
If you're a fitness app,
maybe you store it to some data model.
And basically, that's kind of the quick
overview of how location works.
So with that, I'd like to move on to what
we've done in the last year to
really kind of improve location.
So there's three main
things that we've done.
The first is we've improved
accuracy significantly.
The next thing we've done is we've
also improved the availability
of location services in general.
And then lastly,
we've also helped to lower
power consumption of location
on your user's devices.
So their battery can last longer
than ever when using your apps.
So let's look at a
couple of these things.
What do I mean by improved accuracy?
So let's consider our lovely
city of San Francisco here.
San Francisco,
if you're in kind of the eastern
side in the downtown area,
it looks a lot like this,
like your major metropolitan area.
You get these big,
tall skyscrapers that block
the GPS satellite signal.
So with that,
it's called an urban canyon,
and it's a really,
really difficult environment
for GPSs to work in.
And so we actually take devices and
we drive around San Francisco a lot.
And we particularly pick on this
one block that's got those nice
buildings that you saw right there.
And the result is that we drive around
and we look at our GPS performance.
And we get something that
looks something like this.
Now, this looks a little bit sloppy,
but quite frankly,
most vendors would love to have
a location solution that looks as
good as this does with just GPS.
But we're Apple,
and we also have iPhones.
We have iPhones that have Wi-Fi radios
and cellular radios and a whole bunch of
other technologies baked into the phone.
So we don't just stop at GPS.
If your user has Wi-Fi, now in iOS 6,
they'll get something that's an
experience that's a bit more like this.
But that's not all.
As you know, Maps just launched with some
beautiful new vector data,
which actually is useful
for location as well.
So now your experience if you're
driving in downtown San Francisco will
be something more like this.
There's two main parts.
Let's start with what I mean
by Wi-Fi aided location.
So like I suggested,
basically we take the
horizontal outliers,
say you're driving through San Francisco,
and you see these peaks in
uncertainty where we really
don't know what's going on.
You've got signals
reflecting through windows,
you've got buildings blocking others.
So if we add in Wi-Fi information,
we can actually reduce
the location accuracy.
So we look something more like this.
So basically we just take those really,
really bad peaks and
we drop them back in.
And it looks a lot,
basically it's an incremental
improvement that really helps as a good
stepping point for other technologies.
So that brings us to map aided location.
So what map aided location does is we
basically take the raw GPS and course,
the location and course
information from GPS and Wi-Fi.
And then we look at the,
consider the question
of is your user driving?
Now if your user's driving, A,
they're much more likely to be
on a road because most people
don't drive through golf course.
And the other reason why it's
important is because there's a lot
more sensor information from driving.
So your course is much more reliable.
So with that,
if we have vector data available
to us or we decide to download it,
the result is that we can consider
all of these things and decide
if bringing you closer to a road
is more accurate for your user.
And so we will improve location
if it's possible for us to do so.
So the reason we do this is for, say,
improving turns.
A different part of a drive test,
this is the Transamerica pyramid.
We have data that looks
something like this.
Now it's clear that the user probably
didn't go through that plaza.
And in fact, if we add Wi-Fi in,
you start looking more like this.
But again, if map aiding is available
because you're driving,
the result is this.
So this helps a lot if you're trying
to understand where your user actually
is and you're trying to provide
directions or just generally keep
track of any sort of location accuracy.
But like I mentioned,
we only do it if it's possible.
So one of the key tenets of when
we turn this on is the question of
can we do this without any harm?
And so with that,
we actually added another
spot on our drive test.
And we stopped for donuts.
And I don't mean the manly donut shop.
I actually mean we go into the
parking lot and we do donuts.
So this is not an urban environment.
As you can see,
we actually are doing very,
very well with just GPS and Wi-Fi.
But we can still do it-- so
when we turn on map aiding,
we actually don't do much.
You're a little bit closer to the roads,
but when you get to the parking lot,
your user's track is left alone.
And so we don't really
have any road data there,
and so we leave the user
right as they're driving,
having fun.
So this is really cool that we can
selectively apply map aiding when it's
really beneficial to users and not
when it's going to change their data
to ways that don't make sense for you.
[Transcript missing]
By bringing these to OS X,
we've enabled the ability to bring
the Reminders application to OS X.
Reminders now works
great on your desktop,
home work notifications, they're great.
As long as your computer stays running,
so if it's slept and not shut down,
it'll work just fine.
A quick example of how geocoding
and region monitoring play together.
If you were going to install
a reminder for something that
was interesting to the user,
like where I work, and then what you do
is you take an address,
you create a geocoder object,
and then you make a geocode request,
which you pass a block,
will go hit a server,
asynchronously call you back,
and then you can decide that you want
to start monitoring for that region.
And so you just pick the best
place mark of your choice,
start monitoring for it, and again,
we give you this callback saying
location manager did enter region,
and we have a similar one for exit,
and you can just, since this is OS X,
you can display an
NS alert to tell your user,
hey, look, you're back.
Great.
So you can just go ahead and
start monitoring for that region.
And then you can just pick the
best place mark of your choice,
start monitoring for it, and again,
we give you this callback saying
location manager did enter region,
Hey, look, you're back.
Great.
So with that, let's talk about some other
forms of availability,
specifically Wi-Fi availability.
So as many of you already know,
if you're sitting somewhere and you've
got a location and you do a Wi-Fi scan,
what we do is we take those results
and we send them up to the server.
And the server says, hey, look,
we know about all these
Wi-Fi hotspots in this whole area.
Here you go.
And so now your device,
without any more talking to the server,
can wander around for some
finite distance and figure
out where the user is.
But the problem is,
as you're driving around
San Francisco and you're hanging
out taking photos of people,
you know, you take one picture here,
you take one picture there,
you're not necessarily in the same spot.
We don't hit the cache on the device.
So the result is that we go to
the network and we download yet
another piece of information
and you get a new little area.
So now you can move
around inside of this,
but if you move somewhere further,
then we have to go talk
to the network again.
So with iOS 6, we decided,
can we maybe do something better here?
Can we maybe compress the data?
And so what we did is we actually
took all the Wi-Fis and we
mapped them into these tiles.
So now in the same size as one
of those data downloads that
you saw on the screen before,
you saw six of them,
you get one of these instead.
Same amount of data.
That's five kilometers
by five kilometers.
And the cool part is, if you're on Wi-Fi,
we don't just download one tile.
We'll actually download a whole bunch
of tiles in that area so that your user
can travel even further around the city.
So if you pay for data at a
coffee shop and then you use it,
you can keep going.
We have 10 times the access
points in one piece of data.
And actually,
because we're smarter about the
way that we choose the access
points that we put into the tile,
we actually get 60
times the coverage area.
So it's just being a little bit
smarter about it overall and you
would get this better performance.
So with that,
the advantages of Wi-Fi tiles
are a handful of things.
First off,
it's basically instantaneous location.
If we know about the Wi-Fi's
that are near you and we see one,
we know where you are.
Done.
Fast.
So passbook and weather,
everything works instantly.
Another cool thing is that we sell
devices that don't have cellular radios,
which means that if we
can't download data,
we can't know where you are.
So now that we've got Wi-Fi tiles,
we can bring things like region
monitoring over to the device.
Or you could even say tag
photos with information.
So an iPod touch,
which doesn't have a GPS in it,
can now take a picture and know
where you are and you can say,
hey, look, this was at this place.
But it's not just Wi-Fi-only
devices that benefit.
Users travel abroad, and they don't like
paying for expensive data.
And even if they're not abroad,
they don't want to take
data against their data cap.
So by saving some space and giving
them a whole bunch more information,
we've made Wi-Fi location much,
much more available to all users.
With that,
I'd like to move on to some API changes.
So I mentioned that we
lowered power consumption.
And specifically,
we were noticing a problem with
a lot of applications in the
store that wanted to run in the
background for one reason or another,
like fitness applications
and driving applications.
Let's say that a user is driving
down to L.A., and they get hungry.
So they stop for dinner.
Okay, great.
What do they do?
They unplug their cord,
they put their phone in their pocket.
[Transcript missing]
Are we fixing?
Can we get a location for this user?
And similarly, we actually can do some
activity detection to say,
hey, look,
if you're a running application
and you get in the car,
the motion's completely different.
We can kind of detect the
two and we can pause you just
proactively based on activity type.
So what does this API look like?
Well, for starters,
you need to know whether it's on.
And the answer is basically if it's on,
if you're compiled against --
if you're linked against iOS 6,
we're going to turn it
on for you by default.
All your old applications
will work as before,
but we're going to turn it on by default.
But we're going to give you a
property that you can control to say
whether or not this is a good idea.
Similarly, you're going to need to know,
you need to tell us what type
of activity your user is doing.
So we've got a property on the location
manager now called activity type,
which is going to allow you to set us,
tell us the activity
type your user is doing.
And so we've come up with three basic
activity types that you can choose from.
The first is vehicular navigation.
So your maps application that's
giving navigation or your
TomTom or Navigon or somebody.
Fitness applications.
If the user is running,
if the user is cycling,
that's a good indication that
you're a fitness application.
And then lastly, everything else.
Basically, those are the two most common
types of applications that
want to run in the background.
So everyone else is kind
of lumped into other,
which just has some basic
characteristics from both of them.
The next thing you want to do is what
are we going to do when we pause you?
Well, what we're actually going to do is
we're actually going to tell you that,
hey, we've paused you so that you
can respond appropriately.
You could flush some data to disk.
You could go ahead and tell the user.
You can do whatever.
Similarly,
if your application is suspended
because of a pause event and then
later your user launches your
application to the foreground,
we'll put you back where you were.
Or we'll send you a resume
notification and we'll reconnect
all of your location and you'll
start receiving location updates
just by the user launching your app.
Because, again,
you're not in the background anymore.
Your user's actively telling us, hey,
look, we're trying to use this app.
So we'll put you back where you were.
So with that,
I'd like to invite up Mike Dal Santo,
who's going to give you a quick
demo of how to use Autopause.
Thanks, Jay.
How are you all doing?
I'm going to tell you about Autopause,
our new power saving optimization.
And our goal for this feature is going
to reduce the number of backgrounded
applications that are unnecessarily
requesting location updates.
So what I've got here is your
boilerplate fitness application.
It's called Autopause Demo.
And as you can see,
it's nothing more than a start button,
right?
And that will actually underneath the
hood call start updating location.
I've got a table view which will list
the location updates as they come in.
And then I have a map view which
will plot the location updates.
So for this demo,
you can see that I'm actually simulating
a location in our iOS simulator.
This is considered our city run.
So being that it's a fitness application,
I thought it would be nice
to actually see these being
mapped as if you were running.
So the main point of this feature is
that if you are in the foreground,
Core Location will have a lot of
information about your location.
So if you are in the foreground,
Core Location will stay hands off.
We kind of say that it's up
to the user to determine that
they are actually tracking.
So they know best.
We'll remain uninvolved.
As soon as the application
goes in the background,
that's when we start determining,
are these location updates
benefiting the end user?
If I were to actually background the
application while I'm running right now,
we would say, yes,
these are benefiting the end user.
He's registered as his
activity type is fitness.
And ultimately,
he's probably using these.
But let's just say that you
were using my application here.
And after your run,
you got home and you were
completely exhausted.
And you're like,
thank God I'm finally finished
with that horrible run.
So instead of actually actively
stopping the location updates,
which would be the wise thing to do,
you just put it in your pocket or you put
it on your dresser and you take a shower
and you completely forget about that.
Meanwhile, we are continuing to
determine position estimates.
And those are not going to
be benefiting you if you are
registered as a fitness activity.
So to showcase this,
we throw this into the background.
And during this time,
CoreLocation tries to determine,
are these updates actually
benefiting the user?
And in our case where
we've stopped running,
they are no longer benefiting the user.
So after quite a bit of time,
CoreLocation will issue
you the pause notification.
And what that is is it's the
CL location manager's delegate callback.
Location manager did
pause location updates.
So when we actually pause you,
[Transcript missing]
So we've also got the did
resume location updates.
When your application is
brought back to the foreground,
this is when we actually will,
under the hood,
call start updating for you and then
inform you via this delegate callback.
So I want to clear out some
internal state that I've kept
for my location controller.
Remove any local notifications so that
there's no lingering notifications
in the notification center.
Obviously that would be a confusing
state for the user if they saw
it running and the notification
center still had some lingering.
Please resume my activity.
And last but not least,
for this demo purpose,
I actually post a UI alert view down
here just so you guys can actually see
underneath the hood what's going on.
So to run through this one more time,
we are still in a tracking state now,
so I'm going to push the
application to the background.
So CoreLocation is actually churning
on every position estimate that we
actually are going to give your delegate.
And we're going to determine,
is this benefiting the user?
After some time,
if you're no longer moving or
if you're indoors and you're
not able to get a GPS fix,
we'll say, obviously,
he's just draining battery.
He's wasting the user's precious power.
So let's go ahead and pause them.
So you can see that we were
issued the pause notification.
And I kind of missed it,
but I wanted to actually note
on the fact that under settings
now and in the status bar icon,
we've increased the delay
timer from the status bar icon.
We've left it in the status
bar there for 10 seconds.
And under privacy,
we've left it next to your application
right here for an additional minute.
And this is because we don't want it
to be any mystery for your users that
your application was using location.
So now you have a clear indication
that within the last minute or so,
this guy was actually using location.
So as I mentioned before,
if the application were
to take the foreground,
we would resume location updates for you.
But if the application is killed
via by the user actually killing
it manually or if the system is
under load and needs your resources
and has to actually kill your app,
we will not resume
location updates for you.
So that's what I'm going
to do this turn around.
I'm going to kill the app.
And you'll see the next
time we launch the app,
The app is launched with options,
or did finish launching with options,
as if it was the first
time it was ever launched.
So the user can actually go back
and look at his last run and
marvel at not being resumed when
he wasn't hoping to be resumed,
essentially.
That's pretty much all
there is for Autopause.
A key reminder is please
set your activity type.
Help us help you.
Let us stay completely informed
of what you're trying to do.
And other than that,
we look forward to saving some
battery life with you guys.
Thanks, Mike.
So Mike gave you a quick
example of how you might respond
to a pause event from us.
And so I wanted to go over
a couple of other ideas.
So the first idea is that we're
only going to pause you when we're
actually sure that the user is not
interested in your location data.
So if you receive a pause event for us,
it probably means you shouldn't
be running because your user
doesn't expect you to be running.
So with that,
the easiest thing you can do when
we send you a pause notification,
don't do anything.
You can log into disk maybe
if you want to keep a note for
yourself while you're debugging.
But what it comes down to is
there's usually no action required.
Your user is just not expecting
any more activity from you.
The next thing you might want
to do on an event is to do
exactly what Mike described.
If you're a fitness application
and you're expecting to be
in the background a lot,
maybe you send a notification
to the user or maybe if you've
got their headphones in,
you send them a quick
little audible saying,
hey, by the way,
I'm stopping your activity
because you're stretching now.
Another thing that you might want to do,
especially in the fitness app example,
is just stop updating locations.
You can go from pause to stop
just by calling stop again.
And if you agree with us that you
agree that the user is no longer doing
what you thought the user was doing,
there's no reason to be running.
If you're a fitness app and you're
paused and you then stop yourself,
the result is that when you
come back into the foreground,
the user can now view your old
track and maybe start a new one.
You don't randomly have data from like
a couple days later being added to
a really old track in the user's UI.
It's not a good experience to necessarily
just be paused and then resumed.
Sometimes you do actually want to stop.
But this is not going to
be enough for everybody.
So I'd like to talk about
a couple of other responses
that you might want to have.
For 95% of you in the room,
this is not the slide you're looking for.
Please just ignore me, go to sleep,
do whatever, it's after lunch anyway.
So one thing you could do is you could
actually just disable auto pause.
As I mentioned, it's a property.
You can just go ahead and set it to no.
And we will just turn it off.
You will be fully responsible for
the user's battery and the user's
location and that's all up to you.
Maybe you want to do that.
This is tempting to you.
I'd like to suggest maybe
two other approaches that are
kind of a compromise on power.
The first is consider the case
where you're driving and the user's
followed every single one of your
turns as you're going down the street
and you get a pause event from us.
The second is consider the
case where you're driving and
the user's stopped moving.
Well, if you know they're still on the
freeway and you know that they're still
doing what you've told them to do,
there's a good chance they
just got caught up in traffic.
So it's entirely possible that
there's some cases where you
might want to restart location.
And we make this possible to do.
You just call start updating location.
And even if your app is
still in the background,
we'll give you a little bit more time
to run and we'll think about whether
or not you should be paused again.
And so if your user starts moving again,
we won't pause you.
If the user still stays there,
then maybe we'll send
you another pause event.
So it's kind of a way
as a compromise to say,
hey, look, I actually in this case
know better than you.
But here's a hint.
If you've been telling the user to
make U-turns for the past two minutes,
maybe they're actually sitting in a
restaurant and they're no longer driving.
And maybe we're right and
you don't actually know what
the user's doing anymore.
One other idea is if you had an app that
was just generically kind of wanting
to log the user's activity as kind of
a path or like some sort of activity,
just generic, not necessarily fitness.
But just kind of, hey,
where have you been in the world?
It might be possible that the
user's gone home for the night.
You'd like to kind of pause temporarily
and then start again in the morning.
And it's actually easy to do this.
But it's always been possible.
You could have just stopped
yourself and then installed a fence.
So geofencing would allow you the
ability to resume yourself if you paused.
Now, again, I really strongly suggest
that you guys don't do this.
I think that most users are not
going to expect this behavior.
If your app runs almost indefinitely
as far as a user's concerned and
every other app runs indefinitely,
then you're going to have to do this.
So I would strongly consider
trying out auto pause as it is.
Just tell us your activity type.
See what it feels like.
And then if you have problems or
you want to tweak performance,
you can go and kind of do this.
So for the rest of you,
most of you can just forget this slide.
So with that, we have a couple of other
API changes that we've made in iOS 6.
So the first off is sometimes
it's useful to us to notice that,
hey, look,
you're not necessarily handling
location updates as quickly
as we're sending them to you.
So rather than waste CPU cycles
sending you messages,
what we might actually do is
we might want to coalesce a
handful of messages into one,
just give you an array
of location objects.
So with that,
we've actually got a new delegate
callback method that just takes an array.
They're just chronologically ordered.
The last one is the newest one.
So if you fall behind and we
actually send you a couple,
then what you want to just do
is look at the last element,
plot that on the map,
and then just throw away the rest
because your user's not there anymore.
So with that,
we've actually deprecated the old API.
If you're targeting 5.1,
obviously you need to still use this API.
But on 6, we actually, if we see both,
we'll only call the new API.
So your new delegate.
So the way that you want to handle
this if you're trying to do 5.1 and
6 is just implement the old delegate,
pack up the object we
give you into an array,
send it to your new delegate,
and implement everything
in your new delegate.
And that'll allow you to
run on both platforms.
The next thing I want to
talk about is kind of a quick
overview of privacy on iOS.
So as you know, iOS 6,
we're doing a whole bunch of
privacy controls for all of the
user's personal information.
Now location has always been
considered personal on iOS.
And so it's always been possible,
whenever you've tried to
use a user's location,
we pop up a dialog that looks like this.
So we tell the users, hey,
this application is trying
to use location now.
And then you tell the users, hey,
this is why I want access to
this user's private information.
And if you give them a
compelling enough reason,
they'll say, okay.
If you don't give them
a compelling reason,
they'll say, go away.
And if they do this,
you still want your application to work.
So keep in mind that you might not
always have location because the
user might not trust you with it.
Or maybe they would just prefer
to type in an address and let you
geocode it and then find something.
Or maybe they just want
to keep it private.
Or maybe they just want to go to a
region in a map that they're not actually
physically at and use your data that way.
So I guess one thing to keep in
mind is that it's entirely possible
that the user will prevent you
from using their actual location.
[Transcript missing]
Similarly,
5.1 still uses the purpose string,
so 6 will still support it as well.
But if we see both,
we'll prefer the Info.plist string
over the purpose string.
You might actually want to
read the Info.plist string out
yourself and set it to the purpose
string if you're targeting 5.1.
With that, I'd like to move on to talking
about basically performance tuning.
I'd like to start off with two
myths that I'd hope to dispel.
I saw an app in the App Store recently
that actually told its users that
if you want to get a location
fix in this application quickly,
you should launch Maps first
and then launch my app because
Maps gets location faster.
Maps uses the same API that
you guys have access to.
So if Maps is loading it faster,
it's a function of what Maps is
doing versus what you're doing,
not what we're doing under the covers.
And the reason why Maps loads
location faster is because they're
constantly engaged with the user.
They start off with a location fix.
They take a high-level cell
fix that looks like this.
They know you're in the Bay Area,
so they just start
bringing the map there.
You get a better cell fix,
and they start bringing
you a little bit closer.
And eventually, you get a Wi-Fi,
and they zoom in a bit more.
And eventually, you get GPS,
and you get this nice little
pulsing dot that says,
"Hey, look, I'm out in front of aisle 1."
And so if Maps is doing this,
engaging their users up front,
maybe you could be doing the same thing.
So consider the case where
you're just a restaurant app,
and I just went ahead and
mocked one up here using Maps.
You get to the Bay Area.
You could say, "Hey, look,
here's some awesome restaurants.
These are the four best restaurants
in the Bay Area." Any user that ever
flew to San Francisco would want to
drive to one of these restaurants,
and you could just make it
available on a device for them,
ready to go as soon as you
get any sort of location.
Or maybe you get a little bit better,
and you actually, say,
have a couple of bookmarked
restaurants the user particularly
likes or hasn't tried yet.
Maybe then later on,
when you actually get a Wi-Fi fix,
that's when you actually care, "Okay,
I'm in this neighborhood.
Maybe now I should go download
some new data and say,
'Hey, look, if I'm at Apple Campus,
there's BJ's and there's Cafe Max.
Those are your two dining
options.'" And then lastly,
GPS, maybe you could tell me how to walk
to Cafe Max if I don't know how to
get there from my office already.
But the point is that most of these
scenarios don't require a GPS fix.
So if you're sitting around waiting
for a handful of seconds just
spinning or showing a gray background,
your users are bored,
and they might click out of
your app because your app's not
providing them functionality.
So engage your users up front.
So with that,
I want to talk about another myth.
Now, the myth is basically that Wi-Fi --
you should turn off Wi-Fi in order
to improve location accuracy.
And I think this comes about when
you've got a fitness application
that's considering a user's run track,
and all of a sudden you get a
Wi-Fi fix that's a very low accuracy,
and it kind of pulls you off that track.
Well, the answer there is to filter it.
And the reason why you want to
do that is because turning off
Wi-Fi doesn't improve location accuracy.
Again, this is an example of our
drive test in San Francisco.
This is what you get with just GPS,
nothing else.
So let's go back to our test.
If you turn on Wi-Fi,
even if you're running
or if you're in a car,
you get this.
And if you're in a car
and you've got Wi-Fi on,
you're going to get something like this.
So it's really not beneficial
to your users to tell them,
"Hey look, turn off Wi-Fi.
Just look at the horizontal
accuracy of the position we report
to you and just filter it out.
Say, 'Hey look, this is not useful to me.
I'm just going to ignore this one
location and wait for the next one.'"
So again, user experience, no Wi-Fi,
with Wi-Fi.
Leave Wi-Fi on.
I went for a run in San Francisco,
just kind of generically wandered
around a couple of different streets.
And I ended up with a location
track that looked like this.
Now, this is San Francisco, you know,
location is not necessarily the best,
there's all these skyscrapers and
this and that and the other thing.
Well, actually, I left my iPhone at home.
I strapped an iPod Touch to
my arm and I got this track.
An iPod Touch doesn't have a GPS.
So this data is purely
Wi-Fi using the new tiles.
[Transcript missing]
Similarly, fencing.
If you wanted to go ahead and
monitor a specific region,
you could just tell us, hey, look,
I want to monitor this region.
Or, you know,
I'm no longer interested in this region.
And we'll tell you, hey, look,
the user's now gone to work or
the user's now left for the day.
And it's really easy to actually install
fences that are relevant to your users.
You'll have the appearance
that you're running when the
user needs you to be running,
but you're actually not most of the time.
And then lastly,
something to keep in mind is that
you can always tell UI application,
hey, I want to run longer.
So why not just go ahead and
begin a background task and
then start location updates,
wait for the level of fix that you want,
turn it off, and then you're done.
So with that, I'd like to suggest a model
for starting responsibly.
So let's consider, again,
the automatic check-in app.
What do you want to do when
you want to start location?
Well, you want to make sure that
you can run for a little bit
of time in the background.
You know,
Springboard might give you 10 seconds.
With this, you can grab, say,
five minutes.
And then if Springboard says, hey, look,
you're out of time,
you go ahead and stop location.
But five minutes is
still a really long time.
So what you should actually do is
you should start a timer for you.
So let's say that you had a method in
your function called start location
timer that just started a timer saying,
hey, look,
I'm trying to get a location fix.
So with that, what you could do then
is you could actually,
when that timer fires, say,
after 30 seconds, maybe a minute,
you could just shut
down location yourself.
Say, look, for some reason,
I'm not fixing.
I'm just going to turn everything off.
And that's much better than waiting
for us to pause you because,
again,
we're viewing it very conservatively.
And so we're going to take longer
than a minute or two to be able
to determine that the user's not
actually getting anything useful.
So you can do it much
better with your own timer.
Then once you've set up
the safety mechanisms,
all you have to do is you're going
to go ahead and start the timer.
You start calling the location updates
like you've already been doing.
And then maybe go ahead and save a
little bit of state for yourself saying,
hey, by the way, I'm running.
So in that case, if you were, say,
now going to implement a
significant location change handler,
again,
it's just the same handler as before.
So this is the new one.
Location manager did update locations.
And in this case, let's say you launched
due to an SLC event,
a significant location change event.
The result is that you
could look at that location.
And you could say, hey, look,
is the location that we gave you?
Take the array.
Grab the last object.
It's the most recent one.
And you could say, hey, look,
is the accuracy of this
thing good enough for me?
If it's too large,
then maybe I don't really
care that I'm in this city.
I actually was trying to figure
out what bar I'm at so that
my friends can come find me.
So just go ahead and say, look,
it's not good enough.
If a location's already started
because you're keeping track of that,
you just sit there and wait.
Eventually a better
location will come in.
And you can respond with that location.
Otherwise, don't worry.
You can go ahead and start location.
Now,
if you were launched due to an SLC event,
you've got a handful of
seconds to do whatever you
need before you get suspended.
Since you already wrote the
start location function,
now we're going to go ahead
and grab that task assertion.
And we're going to get
you some more time,
which is very useful.
Now, eventually, sometime later,
that better accuracy came in.
Wi-Fi kicked on.
Or you got a GPS fix.
And you now know exactly
where the user is.
You're ready to tell the world about it.
Update the view.
Or update your data model.
Or send it to the server.
Do whatever you want.
And then you're going to implement.
Your own stop location method.
I've omitted this from the sample.
But your stop location event is
going to do the exact opposite
of your start location event.
It's going to stop the
background task assertion.
It's going to turn off
the location timer.
And it's just going to stop
location and set the flag to none.
So it's really easy to run
in the background for short
intervals of time without using
the UI background mode's key.
Which is just really -- it
really will allow the user to
run better in the background.
Autopause is really just designed
for the apps that actually are
trying to run in the background.
And it's going to run a
long time in the background.
I'd like to give you
guys a quick summary.
So what we've done this year
is we've made horizontal
accuracy better than ever.
We've made location more available
than ever with both Wi-Fi on iOS
devices and making APIs available
like region monitoring on OS X.
And then lastly,
we've made power consumption
better than ever.
But in return,
I want four things from you guys.
First off.
I want you to run only
when you're needed.
Autopause is great.
But consider SLC and
consider region monitoring.
They're powerful APIs that will let
you run when you actually intend to.
Then I want you to tell the
user why they're using it.
And I want you to use the new
NS location usage description key.
And I want you to honor that contract.
Don't let your users be surprised
by the arrow popping on.
Actually just do what the user
expects with their location.
Next, specify user's activity.
If you're being a map application,
tell me your other.
If all of a sudden the user
gets in a car and you start
giving them driving directions,
flip your activity type
to vehicular navigation.
Keep me up to date about what
the user's doing and I can help
make sure your app gets the best
performance out of AutoPause.
And then lastly, leave Wi-Fi on.
Don't tell your users to turn it off.
Let your users get the best
location experience possible.
I'd like you to point you to a
couple places for more information.
Paul Marcos, pmarcos at apple.com.
He's a great point of contact.
He's definitely helped me with
these slides and he's really
been a good resource for just
interacting with you guys.
We've got some documentation online.
We also have developer forums.
Feel free to check those out.
If you've got a time machine or
you just go ahead and online later,
you can go ahead and watch the
using map kit app because many of
you will want to use location by
presenting it to the user using maps.
So I would recommend downloading that
after the sessions become available.
CoreMotion is another great way
to provide context on your device.
Knowing what the user's doing with
your device is almost as powerful as
knowing where they are in the world.
So go ahead and check out
Andy's talk on Friday.
So with that,
I'd like to thank you for coming.